Web Development Stacks

Front-End Developer

A Front-End Developer is someone who creates websites and web applications.

Client-side rendering

a technique for rendering web content on the client-side.
The client requests a minimal HTML file from the server which contains the necessary JavaScript and CSS files.

Server-side rendering

a technique where a server generates the complete HTML for a webpage upfront, sending it ready for immediate display by a web browser.
Server-side rendering can be more complex and costly to implement than client-side rendering.

 Blazor

  a web framework developed by Microsoft that allows developers to build interactive web applications using C# and .NET instead of JavaScript.

Angular

a development platform, built on TypeScript.

As a platform, Angular includes:

A component-based framework for building scalable web applications.
A collection of well-integrated libraries that cover a wide variety of features, including routing, forms management, client-server communication.
A suite of developer tools to help you develop, build, test, and update your code.

Next.js

an open-source web development framework created by the private company Vercel providing React-based web applications with server-side rendering and static rendering.

HTML

Stand for HyperText Markup Language.
The code that is used to structure a web page and its content.

Web API

an application processing interface between a web server and web browser. All web services are APIs but not all APIs are web services. REST API is a special type of Web API that uses the standard architectural style.

Back-end Developer

Back-end development means working on server-side software, which focuses on everything you can’t see on a website.

C#

a general-purpose language that uses static typing, component-oriented structure, and employs multiple paradigms.

NET framework
 
a powerful and versatile tool for web development.

ORM

Object-Relational Mapping is a technique that allows developers to manipulate database data as if they were working with objects in their programming language.

Entity Framework (EF)

an object-relational mapper that enables . NET developers to work with relational data using domain-specific objects.

Database

a storing system that collects organized data, to make some works easier like searching, structure, and extend.

SQL Server

ideal for storing all the desired information in relational databases, as well as to manage such data without complications.

Web stacks

MERN

Where to Use:

Interactive UIs
web applications

When to Use:

When React is preferred over Angular.

Features:

Component-based
great for UI/UX

.NET Stack

Where to Use:

Enterprise applications
APIs

When to Use:

Secure
high-performance
Microsoft ecosystem

Features:

Strongly typed
scalable
.NET-powered

Django Stack

Where to Use:

Data-heavy apps
ML-backed apps

When to Use:

Secure
rapid development
Python-based

Features:

Batteries-included
ORM
scalable

Spring Boot


Where to Use:

Enterprise applications
banking

When to Use:

Secure
scalable
microservices

Features:

Java-powered
robust
good for large-scale apps

Tools of development of .Net stack

Visual Studio

Full-featured IDE for .NET development (best for enterprise projects).

Visual Studio Code (VS Code)

Lightweight editor with .NET extensions.

.NET Core

Cross-platform framework for web, desktop, and cloud applications.

Entity Framework Core

ORM for database interaction using C#.

Dapper

Lightweight, high-performance micro-ORM for SQL database queries.

Blazor

Framework for building interactive web UIs using C#.

SQL Server

Performance monitoring tool for SQL queries.

Docker

Containerization for .NET apps.

Serilog

Structured logging for .NET apps

Postman

API testing tool for sending HTTP requests.

OWASP

provides best practices to protect web applications from vulnerabilities.

Stripe

a popular payment gateway that allows businesses to process online transactions securely.